```
title: Cricket is no longer personal
layout: post
date: May 31 2009
comments: true
tags: ['rants','cricket']
```
After, Udupa, IISc Coffee Board, the recently concluded IPL seems to have
relegated yet another favorite time pass to lanes of nostalgia. Don't for a
moment think that I'm being nice towards IPL. I hate it, plain and simple.
Cricket is no longer discussed with the same passion over a cup of chai. And
the prime accussed in that crime is IPL. 

<!-- Read more -->

I'm not sure if most of us even know the names of the players in each team. I
sometimes even get confused with the names of the team. Try as you might, you
will not remember a single game from the IPL with the same tingle that you may
remember the Desert Storm ODI when Sachin put the Aussies in their place. Or a
Kolkata 2001, or the 2002 Natwest Series win over England, the 1983 world cup.
And so many countless others. I don't have a problem with 20-20 format. It's
good to have a shorter version that can attract more countries. And I enjoyed
last years world cup. But the beauty of cricket is the fact that it is the ONLY
sport played over more than a day. It is probably one game where it is more
important to conquer mental strain than physical strain. Most ardent cricket
fans including yours truly, pride themselves in their admirable grasp of
statistics and important cricketing events. The completely looney ones even
remember statistics from first class matches. IPL is not so. Considering that
there have been only two centuries that have been scored during the IPL, one
may be tempted to think that people would remember the names easily.  I for
one, cannot quickly recollect the players who scored them. Few months ago,
during some of the India test matches, the first thing I used to do in the
mornings was to spend about 10-15 minutes on cricinfo. For the entire IPL
season, I visited the site a maximum of maybe 8-10 times. I'm sure there are
many others like me, who, when asked about "yesterday's IPL match", will feel a
tinge of disappointment.

In my opinion, the worst thing to happen to cricket has been IPL.  Yes, it has
made possible to bypass the bureaucratic hierarchies that were in place earlier
allowing lesser know faces to be noticed. But it is going to increase the
number of flashes in the pan. It seems to be bringing a thought process that he
who is the loudest is the best. No longer will you see an out of form player
buckling himself down and play a soul stirring knock. Imagine an innings like
that of Sourav's in the first test at Brisbane in 03-04. Or a knock from Sachin
in the same series when he did not play a single cover drive and scored a
double hundred. If you think any innings in the IPL will make you run to
youtube to lookup the performance, tough luck. In today's world of 
I-want-it-short-and-I-want-it-yesterday, yet another beautiful art seems to be
dying. Even kids know that cutting the goose to get the golden egg is not such
a good idea.
