```
title: The Ephemeral Question
layout: post
date: NOVEMBER 28, 2007
comments: true
tags: ['rants','phil']
```
At some point or the other during our adult life, most of us have asked
ourselves one of the most beaten up, clich√©d and often the most irrelevant of
questions: 'What's my purpose in life?'. The religious few may have a
favorite(Pardon the English, English) variant: 'Why has God put me on earth?'.
The self-centered among us would have asked: 'Why the hell is everyone else
here?'
<!-- Read more -->
Ever since man realized how to think, he has had an eternal need to establish
himself as the center of everything, plainly because it made thinking easier.
To explain his being here, man needed a convenient concept. God. An all
pervading infinite entity that was the source of all creation and destruction.
The difficult question was 'why?'. So, he invented religion. That, in my view
was when the dark ages started. He harnessed all his 'divine' thinking power
and decided that the main purpose in life is to unite with god and religion was
a way to do so. Unfortunately, all the while he could never give a definite
statement about god. God was something beyond men, an entity that looked after
us and with whom we unite when we die. Now, how can we define the unity with
divinity? Man, with yet another master stroke, came up with the concept of a
soul. It proved to be very convenient to explain good and bad. Also unity was
explained very simply by terming that soul was a part of the whole. Most
religions termed the soul to be an indestructible entity that is indifferent to
the acts of man (Good and evil is a different argument and will be taken up
later). Everything seemed to fit into the logical thought process, until
science came along.

Science, has by far the biggest achievement of man. More far reaching than
religion, for religion has now deteriorated in to a tool in the hands of men to
be used against other men. Science, for a start told man that he was not at the
center. Next, it spoke of atoms and molecules and their combinations. It spoke
of indestructibility of energy. Basically, it told man that he was a freak
coincidence of a potpourri of things. It went on to talk about the universe and
the not so strange beginnings and current state of things as a consequence of
the beginnings. This is where 'man's purpose' takes a beating.

The plain cold fact that man is just an autonomous system on a very short time
scale escapes him. He isn't here for any purpose. He is a consequence of things
that happened and continue to happen. His doing anything probably won't change
the course of things. He's like the ripples that are created in water at the
throwing of a stone. They bob up and down a while and die out. He may create
the ripple by him being the stone, but the eventual consequence of that ripple
is finite and wholly acted upon by other ripples not related to him, making the
consequence ever more finite. We are nothing, but oversized ants working,
eating, procreating and cannibalizing for no reason. And we think we know why.
We do it because we are here, not because we would go somewhere. Imagine a
boring Sunday afternoon when you while your time by trying to entertain
yourself. Life is just that. Many times over.
